Say we want the user to reauthenticate, because we're using OpenID Connect,
we can add a parameter to the authorization request to Keycloak,
requesting the auth server to reauthenticate the user.
You can request full authentication with login,
or just reconsent, or to select a different account.
To achieve this,
we need to customize the authorization request to include this parameter,
so we need a CustomAuthorizationRequestResolver.
Here, we have a wrapper implementation over the default version,
implementing the AuthorizationRequestResolverInterface
and overriding the two resolve methods.
Then, in the resolve method,
we can use the default and then append the additional parameters.
In this case, we're going to prompt the user to relog in.
If we restart our application, you can see,
if we log out, this time,
Keycloak prompts us to reauthenticate as the parameter was
included in the authorization request.
Now, one thing to note about this feature is,
currently, as it stands,
the client cannot be certain the user actually reauthenticated
as this redirect goes through the browser,
so a malicious plug‑in could potentially remove it and
result in the user not reauthenticating.
The user could also bypass it themselves by removing it
from the request and pasting the URL,
hence this should not be used as a feature to allow users to
sign out and log in with another account,
hence this feature should ideally be used only to allow
users to switch accounts rather than say,
to reauthenticate the user before a sensitive action.
And passing in this parameter does not result in the
user's session being terminated.
Now, having said that, you could check the auth_time property in the ID token.
So if the user did reauthenticate,
then they should have a new ID token and the auth_time
should represent when they logged in,
so you could validate that they actually did reauthenticate using this field.
Additionally, you could also use the max_age parameter instead of the prompt,
so setting it 0 should have the same effect as prompt=login.
The OpenID Connect spec also mandates that the auth_time be
included if you use this parameter; however,
I have found that most providers include the auth_time even for prompt=login.
Next,
let's look at how we can log a user out from both the application and the authorization server.